To make sure that our target image has the same content as our content image,
we formalize the idea of a content loss,
that compares the content representations of the two images.
Next, we want to do the same thing for
the style representations of our target image and style image.
The style representation of an image relies on looking at correlations
between the features in individual layers of the VGG-19 network,
in other words looking at how similar the features in a single layer are.
Similarities will include the general colors and textures found in that layer.
We typically find the similarities between features in multiple layers in the network.
By including the correlations between multiple layers of different sizes,
we can obtain a multiscale style representation of the input image,
one that captures large and small style features.
The style representation is calculated as an image passes through
the network at the first convolutional layer in all five stacks,
conv1_1, conv2_1, up to conv5_1.
The correlations at each layer are given by a Gram matrix.
The matrix is a result of a couple of operations,
and it's easiest to see in a simple example.
Say, we start off with a four by four image,
and we convolve it with eight different image filters to create a convolutional layer.
This layer will be four by four in height and width,
and eight in depth.
Thinking about the style representation for this layer,
we can say that this layer has
eight feature maps that we want to find the relationships between.
The first step in calculating the Gram matrix,
will be to vectorize the values in this layer.
This is very similar to what you've seen before,
in the case of vectorizing an image so that it can be seen by an NLP.
The first row of four values in the feature map,
will become the first four values in a vector with length 16.
The last row will be the last four values in that vector.
By flattening the XY dimensions of the feature maps,
we're converting a 3D convolutional layer into a 2D matrix of values.
The next step is to multiply this matrix by its transpose.
Essentially, multiplying the features in each map to get the gram matrix.
This operation treats each value in the feature map as an individual sample,
unrelated in space to other values.
So, the resultant Gram matrix contains non-localized information about the layer.
Non-localized information, is information that would
still be there even if an image was shuffled around in space.
For example, even if the content of a filtered image is not identifiable,
you should still be able to see prominent colors and textures the style.
Finally, we're left with the square eight by eight Gram matrix,
whose values indicate the similarities between the the layers.
So, G row four column two,
will hold a value that indicates the similarity
between the fourth and second feature maps in a layer.
Importantly, the dimensions of this matrix are related
only to the number of feature maps in the convolutional layer,
it doesn't depend on the dimensions of the input image.
I should note that the Gram matrix is
just one mathematical way of representing the idea of shared in prominent styles.
Style itself is an abstract idea but the Gram matrix,
is the most widely used in practice.
Now that we've defined the Gram matrix as having
information about the style of a given layer,
next we can calculate a style loss that compares
the style of our target image and our style image.